build-lists: true
footer: IDM 250: Content Management Systems
slidenumbers: true
autoscale: true
theme: Titillium

# IDM 250
## Content Management Systems

---
## Week 1 - Agenda
- Introduction
- Installing Wordpress Locally
- Installing Wordpress on your Server


---
## Hello

- Paul Phan
- paul.phan@drexel.edu
- Discord `MrPaulPhan#8336`
- `@mrpaulphan` on all socials

---
## Course Overview

^ In Web Authoring I you designed and coded static html pages. Everything that existed on the page, that you viewed in your browser window, was coded into the html file. With Content Management Systems like WordPress, the main sections of each page is broken into distinct parts (header, content, sidebar, footer), and the actual content is stored in a database. When you request a page in your browser the WordPress system dynamically assembles each page on the fly, grabbing the pieces and content that it needs, and generates the static html that is served to your browser. All of this information regarding style and layout is stored in your Theme folder. Since every page is dynamically driven it is important to have a comprehensive plan before you start coding or even designing.


---
## Objectives?
- Become familiar with Content Management Systems (CMS) to create Dynamic websites.
- Work and understand the difference with both client and server side languages


---
## Requirements
- Knowledge of HTML and CSS
- Beginners knowledge of PHP
- Self hosted web domain
- FTP software (Filezilla, Cyberduck, Fetch..etc

---

## What is a Static Website?
- Pages are made of only HTML, CSS, and JS.
- These are all consider client-side languages. They can only manipulate what client (the web pages) and what the user sees.

---

## What is a Content Management System (CMS)
- A CMS is a collection of files (HTML, CSS, PHP...etc) that generates a website and allows you to edit that website.
- It is a collection of web pages that allow you to edit your public web pages.

---

# Why WordPress
- First Launched in 2003
- WordPress powers almost 40% of sites on the internet On top of that:
- WordPress commands 64.1% of the CMS market share
- 30.3% of the top 1000 sites use WordPress
- WordPress was the fastest-growing CMS platform 11 years in a row

---

# Why WordPress
- Community is massive
- Side jobs everywhere

---
# .org vs .com
- WordPress.org is the open-source content management system that we’ll refer to in this article, while WordPress.com is another popular blogging platform with basic functionality that can be accessed for free.

- While WordPress.com is a hosting company

# Installing Wordpress
- Demo

---

## For Next Week...
