build-lists: true
footer: IDM 250: Content Management Systems
slidenumbers: true
autoscale: true
theme: Titillium

# IDM 250
## Content Management Systems

---
## Week 2 - Agenda
- Wordpress Theme Starter
- Theme Structure
- WordPress Overview


---
## Theme Basics
- Put your theme inside `/wp-content/themes/`
- Theme hierarchy
    - Theme Name (Folder)
        - index.php (Required)
        - style.css (Required)
        - functions.php
        - screenshot.png

---

## Recommended setting changes
- Update Permalink
- Update "homepage displays" to "A static page"


---



## Theme Design
- Wordpress themes are made up of template files
- These templates will affect the layout and design of the website

^ When someone visits a page on your website, WordPress loads a template based on the request. The type of content that is displayed in by the template file is determined by the Post Type associated with the template file.  The Template Hierarchy describes which template file WordPress will load based on the type of request and whether the template exists in the theme. The server then parses the PHP in the template and returns HTML to the visitor.

---
## Common Wordpress Template Files
- index.php
    - The main template file. It is required in all themes.
- style.css
    - The main stylesheet. It is required in all themes and contains the information header for your theme.
- comments.php
    - The comments template.
- front-page.php
    - The front page template is always used as the site front page if it exists, regardless of what settings on Admin > Settings > Reading.
- home.php
    - The home page template is the front page by default. If you do not set WordPress to use a static front page, this template is used to show latest posts.

---
- single.php
    - The single post template is used when a visitor requests a single post.
- page.php
    - The page template is used when visitors request individual pages, which are a built-in template.
- archive.php
    - The archive template is used when visitors request posts by category, author, or date. Note: this template will be overridden if more specific templates are present like category.php, author.php, and date.php.
- category.php
    - The category template is used when visitors request posts by category.

---
- tag.php
    - The tag template is used when visitors request posts by tag.
- search.php
    - The search results template is used to display a visitor’s search results.
- attachment.php
    - The attachment template is used when viewing a single attachment like an image, pdf, or other media file.
- 404.php
- The 404 template is used when WordPress cannot find a post, page, or other content that matches the visitor’s request.

--- 
##  Template Hierarchy
- [Link](https://wphierarchy.com/)

---
## Wordpress Dashboard
- Live Demo

---
## For Next Week...
